[DOCS] guide for using agents (#459)
huggingface/kernels: docs/source/builder/agents-guide.md

# Writing custom kernels with code agents

> Code agents are a good fit for custom kernels because the hard part is not just writing in Domain Specific Language (DSLs) like CUDA. You also need the right project layout, PyTorch bindings, architecture-specific choices, model-specific integration, and trustworthy benchmarks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code agents are a good fit to build custom kernels because the hard part is not just writing in Domain Specific Language (DSLs) like CUDA. You also need the right project layout, PyTorch bindings, architecture-specific choices, model-specific integration, and trustworthy benchmarks. 
```

> Kernels on Hugging Face are compatible with agents via skills and the `hf` cli. The `cuda-kernels` and `rocm-kernels` skills contain knowledge so an agent can generate and publish a complete kernel project, instead of isolated snippets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kernels on Hugging Face are compatible with agents via skills and the `hf` CLI. The `cuda-kernels` and `rocm-kernels` skills contain knowledge so an agent can generate and publish a complete kernel project, instead of isolated snippets.
```

> This guide is for **authoring new kernels**. If you only want to **load an existing precompiled kernel**, use `get_kernel()` from the Hub instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is for **authoring new kernels**. If you only want to **load an existing precompiled kernel**, use `get_kernel()` instead.
```

## Before you start

You need:

- a coding agent that supports skills, such as Claude Code, Codex, Cursor, or OpenCode  
- a clear target: library, model, operation, GPU, dtype, and representative shapes

The skill currently focuses on NVIDIA GPUs such as **H100**, **A100**, and **T4**, and on integration patterns for **transformers** and **diffusers**.

Install the skill into your agent. If you need the latest version from `main`, use:

```shell
pip install kernels

# Install your skills

> kernels skills add

Reviewer 2: We moved it to `kernel-builder`, but we currently can't upload the latest version to crates.io due to a Git dependency (`huggingface-hub`). So I suggest or the time being:

```suggestion
cargo install --git https://github.com/huggingface/kernels hf-kernel-builder

# Install your skills. Use --claude, --codex, or --opencode
kernel-builder skills add --claude
```

```

> [!NOTE]

> > If you want to check out the generated kernel, got to [this example](https://github.com/burtenshaw/kernel-skill/tree/main/examples/ltx_video)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Check [this example](https://github.com/burtenshaw/kernel-skill/tree/main/examples/ltx_video) to see what generated kernels look like.
```

## 1. Give the agent a precise task prompt

> Writing kernels is a hard problem so be specific to agents. A robust will declare all core attributes. For example;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing kernels is a hard problem, so be specific to agents. A robust prompt will declare all core attributes, including:
```

## 2. Verify that the agent produces a complete kernel project

A useful result is a full `kernel-builder` project, not just a `.cu` file. The exact layout can vary, but it should include at least:

```
examples/your_model/
├── kernel_src/
│   └── rmsnorm.cu              # Vectorized CUDA kernel
├── torch-ext/
│   ├── your_kernels/__init__.py
│   └── torch_binding.cpp       # PyTorch C++ bindings
├── benchmark_rmsnorm.py        # Micro-benchmark script
├── build.toml                  # kernel-builder config
├── setup.py                    # pip install -e .
└── pyproject.toml
```

The agent skills contain example scipts to help you verify the project. So you can briefly test it yourself by running:

```
Verify the kernel project works with a transformers example.
```

## 3. Review the generated files

Let's dive deeper into the generated files, and explore how to validate the project.

### `build.toml`

This is the main configuration file for `kernel-builder`. It tells `kernel-builder` what to build and how so it should contain all the core information about your kernel project.

```
[general]
name = "your_kernels"

> backends = ["cuda"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
backends = ["cuda"]
version = 1
```

```markdown
| Shape | Custom (ms) | PyTorch (ms) | Speedup |
| :---- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [1x128x4096] | 0.040 | 0.062 | **1.58x** |
| [1x512x4096] | 0.038 | 0.064 | **1.69x** |
| [1x1024x4096] | 0.037 | 0.071 | **1.90x** |
| [1x2048x4096] | 0.045 | 0.091 | **2.03x** |
| [1x4096x4096] | 0.071 | 0.150 | **2.12x** |
| [4x512x4096] | 0.056 | 0.093 | **1.67x** |
| [8x256x4096] | 0.045 | 0.092 | **2.06x** |
| [1x8192x4096] | 0.109 | 0.269 | **2.47x** |
```

Interpret the results carefully. A kernel can show a large isolated speedup but only a modest end-to-end gain if that operation is a small fraction of total runtime. In the LTX-Video example from [the blog we wrote](https://huggingface.co/blog/custom-cuda-kernels-agent-skills), the generated RMSNorm kernel improved the isolated benchmark by about **1.88x** on average, but end-to-end video generation improved by about **6%**, which matched the fact that RMSNorm accounted for only a small share of total compute.

> ## 7. Publish to the Hub if you want reuse

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 7. Publish to the Hub
```

more encouragement lol

Once the project is correct and benchmarked, you can build Hub-compatible artifacts and upload them. For this, you should first push to the Hub using the `hf` CLI tool:

```shell
# install the hf CLI tool
hf skills add 

# Authenticate
hf auth login

# Push to the Hub
<agent-prompt>
Push the kernel to the Hub.
</agent-prompt>
```

Or, you can manually create the repository and upload the artifacts:

```shell
# Create the repository
hf repo create your-org/your-kernel --type model

# Upload the artifacts

> hf upload your-org/your-kernel ./build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Run inside the main kernel directory, where build/ is.
kernel-builder upload
```

otherwise the kernel card does not get uploaded. This also automatically creates the repo if needed.

```

After pushing to the Hub, users can load the kernel without compiling:

```py
from kernels import get_kernel

> kernel = get_kernel("your-org/your-kernel")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kernel = get_kernel("your-org/your-kernel", version=1)
```

versionless use is deprecated.
